Updated and polished the "Torii Endpoints" topic (#464)
hyperledger/iroha-2-docs: src/reference/torii-endpoints.md

   This address is the same as the `API_URL` address in the `configs/peer/config.json` peer configuration file.
   - `TORII_TELEMETRY_URL` — connects to the [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/) endpoint address that is used as a [metrics](../guide/advanced/metrics.md) tool to monitor the network performance.

   ::: info

   To learn more, see [Client Configuration > Iroha Public Addresses](../guide/configure/client-configuration.md#iroha-public-addresses).

   :::

2. In the `configs/peer/config.json` peer configuration file:
   - `API_URL` — connects to the `TORII` module responsible for handling incoming and outgoing connections.\
   This address is the same as the `TORII_API_URL` address in the `configs/client_cli/config.json` client configuration file.
   - `TELEMETRY_URL` — connects to the [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/) endpoint address that is used as a [metrics](../guide/advanced/metrics.md) tool to monitor the network performance.

   ::: info

   To learn more, see [Peer Configuration > Iroha Public Addresses](../guide/configure/peer-configuration.html#iroha-public-addresses).

   :::

-->

## API Version

::: info

> This operation requires the Iroha 2 network to be established with the `telemetry` feature enabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This operation requires the particular Iroha node you are making request to to be compiled with the `telemetry` feature enabled.
```

| :--: | -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| 200  | OK       | Returns the current version of the API used by Iroha 2 as a JSON string. |

**Example**:

```json
"1"
```

::: info

The API version is retrieved from and is the same as the version of the [genesis block](../guide/configure/genesis.md), which means that at least a minimal subnet of four peers must be running, and the genesis block must already be submitted at the time of the request.

:::

## Blocks Stream

- **Protocols**: `HTTP` upgraded to `WebSocket`
- **Encoding**: `SCALE`
- **Endpoint**: `/block/stream`

#### Handshake

Since the `/block/stream` endpoint handles continuous two-way data exchange, a `WebSocket` handshake between the client and server must first be performed to initiate communication with this endpoint.

The first HTTP request to this endpoint requires a standard set of `WebSocket` headers.

**Example**:

```http
Host: example.com:8000
Upgrade: websocket
Connection: Upgrade
Sec-WebSocket-Key: x3JJHMbDL1EzLkh9GBhXDw==
Sec-WebSocket-Version: 13
Sec-WebSocket-Extensions: permessage-deflate, client_max_window_bits
```

#### Data Exchange

> After a successful handshake, the client must send a [`BlockSubscriptionRequest`](/reference/data-model-schema#blocksubscriptionrequest) request with the starting block number provided (i.e., the `height` value). Then, upon sending the confirmation and [`BlockMessage`](/reference/data-model-schema#blockmessage) messages, the server starts streaming all of the blocks, beginning with the block specified with `height` up to the most recent one, and then continues to stream new blocks as they are added to the blockchain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After establishing a WebSocket connection, the client must send a [`BlockSubscriptionRequest`](/reference/data-model-schema#blocksubscriptionrequest) request with the starting block number provided (i.e., the `height` value). Then, upon sending the confirmation and [`BlockMessage`](/reference/data-model-schema#blockmessage) messages, the server starts streaming all of the blocks, beginning with the block specified with `height` up to the most recent one, and then continues to stream new blocks as they are added to the blockchain.
```

   This address is the same as the `API_URL` address in the `configs/peer/config.json` peer configuration file.
   - `TORII_TELEMETRY_URL` — connects to the [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/) endpoint address that is used as a [metrics](../guide/advanced/metrics.md) tool to monitor the network performance.

   ::: info

   To learn more, see [Client Configuration > Iroha Public Addresses](../guide/configure/client-configuration.md#iroha-public-addresses).

   :::

2. In the `configs/peer/config.json` peer configuration file:
   - `API_URL` — connects to the `TORII` module responsible for handling incoming and outgoing connections.\
   This address is the same as the `TORII_API_URL` address in the `configs/client_cli/config.json` client configuration file.
   - `TELEMETRY_URL` — connects to the [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/) endpoint address that is used as a [metrics](../guide/advanced/metrics.md) tool to monitor the network performance.

   ::: info

   To learn more, see [Peer Configuration > Iroha Public Addresses](../guide/configure/peer-configuration.html#iroha-public-addresses).

   :::

> ## API Version

Reviewer: It is worth mentioning that this endpoint is available if `telemetry` feature is enabled in Iroha.

It applies to other endpoints as well:

- metrics
- status

And there is also `schema` feature which enables "schema" endpoint.

### What are the features?

Those are flag to compile Iroha with different stuff inside. By default all of them are enabled. Disabling them might be beneficial for optimisation.

I think we should also document features somewhere in the reference, in a different topic.

Author: Created a new issue for tracking: #465

| 500  | Internal Server Error | The server encountered an unexpected issue and could not fulfill the request. |

**Example**:

```json
200 OK: "1"
```

::: info

The API version is retrieved from and is the same as the version of the [genesis block](../guide/configure/genesis.md), which means that at least a minimal subnet of four peers must be running, and the genesis block must already be submitted at the time of the request.

:::

## Blocks Stream

- **Protocols**: `HTTP` upgraded to `WebSocket`
- **Encoding**: `SCALE`
- **Endpoint**: `/block/stream`

#### Handshake

Since the `/block/stream` endpoint handles continuous two-way data exchange, a `WebSocket` handshake between the client and server must first be performed to initiate communication with this endpoint.

The first HTTP request to this endpoint requires a standard set of `WebSocket` headers.

**Example**:

```http
Host: example.com:8000
Upgrade: websocket
Connection: Upgrade
Sec-WebSocket-Key: x3JJHMbDL1EzLkh9GBhXDw==
Sec-WebSocket-Version: 13
Sec-WebSocket-Extensions: permessage-deflate, client_max_window_bits

> ```

Reviewer: I am not sure we should cover details of how WebSocket works. It is pretty much a standard and API users might use any convenient WebSocket client they want. Such stuff about headers is performed under the hood and doesn't really matter for developers.

What matters and what is related to Iroha, however, is the flow of handshake and data exchange.

#### Data Exchange

After a successful handshake, the client must send a [`BlockSubscriptionRequest`](/reference/data-model-schema#blocksubscriptionrequest) request with the starting block number provided (i.e., the `height` value). Then, upon sending the confirmation and [`BlockMessage`](/reference/data-model-schema#blockmessage) messages, the server starts streaming all of the blocks, beginning with the block specified with `height` up to the most recent one, and then continues to stream new blocks as they are added to the blockchain.

#### Responses

| Code | Response              | Description                                                                   |
| :--: | --------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 101  | Switching Protocols   | The protocol is successfully switched from `HTTP` to `WebSocket`.             |
| 400  | Bad Request           | The server will not process the request due to an issue on the client side.   |
| 401  | Unauthorized          | The client lacks valid credentials for the request.                           |

> | 500  | Internal Server Error | The server encountered an unexpected issue and could not fulfill the request. |

Reviewer: - 101 - might occur, doesn't matter for Torii docs
- 400 - never
- 401 - never, this request doesn't require authorization
- 500 - might occur for any request, isn't worth to mention

I would say, the whole table is not needed, as well as "responses" section.

## Configuration / Retrieve

- **Protocol**: `HTTP`
- **Method**: `GET`
- **Encoding**: `JSON`
- **Endpoint**: `/configuration`

#### Requests

A `GET` request to the endpoint.

#### Responses

| Code | Response              | Description                                                                   |
| :--: | --------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 200  | OK                    | Returns a subset of configuration parameters serialized into JSON format.     |
| 401  | Unauthorized          | The client lacks valid credentials for the request.                           |

> | 500  | Internal Server Error | The server encountered an unexpected issue and could not fulfill the request. |

Reviewer: 401 never happens; 500 is needless to mention.

**Example**:

> ```json
> 200 OK:
> {
>   "logger": {
>     "level": "TRACE"
>   }
> }
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```json
{
  "logger": {
    "level": "TRACE"
  }
}
```
````

}
```

#### Responses

| Code | Response              | Description                                                                     |
| :--: | --------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 202  | Accepted              | The request to update the configuration is accepted and is due to be processed. |
| 401  | Unauthorized          | The client lacks valid credentials for the request.                             |

> | 500  | Internal Server Error | The server encountered an unexpected issue and could not fulfill the request.   |

Reviewer: 401 never happens; 500 is needless to mention.

::: tip Guarantees

A successful configuration update does not guarantee that the configuration is indeed updated. While a follow-up [Configuration / Retrieve](#configuration-retrieve) request will return updated values, the actual update is performed asynchronously.

:::

> ## Events

Reviewer: What I said in the block stream section about WebSocket applies here as well.

- **Protocol**: `HTTP` upgraded to `WebSocket`

> - **Encoding**: `SCALE`

Reviewer: I think leaving a footnote for `SCALE` makes sense.

| :--: | --------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 101  | Switching Protocols   | The protocol is successfully switched from `HTTP` to `WebSocket`.             |
| 400  | Bad Request           | The server will not process the request due to an issue on the client side.   |
| 401  | Unauthorized          | The client lacks valid credentials for the request.                           |
| 500  | Internal Server Error | The server encountered an unexpected issue and could not fulfill the request. |

## Health

- **Protocol**: `HTTP`
- **Method**: `GET`
- **Encoding**: `JSON`
- **Endpoint**: `/health`

#### Requests

A `GET` request to the endpoint.

#### Responses

| Code | Response              | Description                                                                   |
| :--: | --------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 200  | Health Status         | Returns the current status of the peer submitting the request.                |
| 401  | Unauthorized          | The client lacks valid credentials for the request.                           |

> | 500  | Internal Server Error | The server encountered an unexpected issue and could not fulfill the request. |

Reviewer: 401 never happens; 500 is needless to mention.

**Example**:

```json
200 Health Status: "Healthy"
```

## Metrics

- **Protocol**: `HTTP`
- **Method**: `GET`
- **Encoding**: `JSON`
- **Endpoint**: `/metrics`

#### Responses

| Code | Response              | Description                                                                   |
| :--: | --------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 200  | Metrics               | Returns a report on 8 out of 10 Prometheus metrics.                           |
| 401  | Unauthorized          | The client lacks valid credentials for the request.                           |

> | 500  | Internal Server Error | The server encountered an unexpected issue and could not fulfill the request. |

Reviewer: 401 never happens; 500 is needless to mention.

:::

::: info

To learn more about metrics, see [Metrics](../guide/advanced/metrics.md).

:::

## Pending Transactions

- **Protocol**: `HTTP`
- **Method**: `GET`
- **Encoding**: `SCALE`
- **Endpoint**: `/pending_transactions`

#### Requests

A `GET` request to the endpoint.

#### Responses

| Code | Response | Description                                                                                                                                                          |
| :--: | -------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 200  | OK       | Returns a list of pending transactions as [`SignedTransaction`](data-model-schema.md#signedtransaction) objects encoded with `SCALE`; must be decoded by the client. |

**Example**:

```[SCALE]
[
  34,
  86,
  97,
  108,
  117,
  101,
  34
]

> ```

Reviewer: Providing an example here is not useful. I would omit it entirely.

**Note:** providing SCALE example for the Status endpoint still makes sense.

## Status

- **Protocol**: `HTTP`
- **Method**: `GET`
- **Encoding**: `JSON` or `SCALE`
- **Endpoint**: `/status`

#### Requests

A `GET` request to the endpoint.

This endpoint also accepts the following:

  - **Header**: Specifies the encoding of the retrieved data.\
  Can be set to one of the following:
    - `Accept: application/x-parity-scale` — the retrieved data is encoded with SCALE.
    - `Accept: application/json` — the retrieved data is encoded with JSON.

If no header is specified in the request, the `Accept: application/json` header is used by default.

#### Responses

> | Code | Response              | Description                                                                   |
> | :--: | --------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
> | 200  | Iroha Status          | Returns the Iroha network status report.                                      |
> | 401  | Unauthorized          | The client lacks valid credentials for the request.                           |
> | 500  | Internal Server Error | The server encountered an unexpected issue and could not fulfill the request. |
> 
> The `200 Iroha Status` response is generated in accordance with the encoding specified in the header of the request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Code | Response              | Description                                                                   |
| :--: | --------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 200  | Iroha Status          | Returns the Iroha network status report. The response is generated in accordance with the encoding specified in the header of the request and is specified in `Content-Type` response header.  |
```

:::

::: warning JSON Precision Lost

Almost all fields in the `Status` structure are 64-bit integers, and they are encoded in JSON as-is. Since native JSON's number type according to the specification effectively is `f64`, the precision might be lost on deserialization, for example, in [JavaScript's `JSON.parse`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/JSON/parse).

For more details, see the related [GitHub issue](https://github.com/hyperledger/iroha/issues/3964).

:::

::: tip Compact Form in SCALE

Fields with `u64` type are serialized in the [Compact form](https://docs.substrate.io/reference/scale-codec/#fn-1).

:::

### Sub-routing

It is also possible to retrieve the data of a specific `struct` group or variable within it by adding their path to the endpoint address. The sub-routed values are only returned in the JSON format.

**Examples**:

::: code-group

```json [/status]
struct Status {
  "peers": 4,
  "blocks": 5,
  "txs_accepted": 31,
  "txs_rejected": 3,
  "uptime": {
    "secs": 5,
    "nanos": 937000000
  },
  "view_changes": 2,
  "queue_size": 18
}

struct Uptime {
    secs: 5,
    nanos: 937000000
}

> ```

Reviewer: Please use actual JSON as it used to be before.

## Transaction

- **Protocol**: `HTTP`
- **Method**: `POST`
- **Encoding**: `SCALE`
- **Endpoint**: `/transaction`

#### Requests

This endpoint expects the following data:

  - **Body**: [`VersionedSignedTransaction`](/reference/data-model-schema#versionedsignedtransaction)

#### Responses

| Code | Response                                 | Description                                                                        |
| :--: | ---------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 200  | Transaction Accepted                     | Transaction has been accepted, but is not yet guaranteed to have passed consensus. |
| 400  | Transaction Rejected (Malformed)         | Transaction is rejected due to being malformed.                                    |
| 401  | Transaction Rejected (Improperly signed) | Transaction is rejected due to being improperly signed.                            |

> | 500  | Internal Server Error                    | The server encountered an unexpected issue and could not fulfill the request.      |

Reviewer: 500 is needless to mention
